This is good stuff, sir.
You're just talking now in general, right, about... Well, no.
One book you're going to film and discard.
Another book you're going to preserve everything you can of and keep it forever.
Another you're going to film and you're going to put in HD and just let it alone, as you said.
phased deterioration somebody's got to tell you what to do somebody has got to tell you what to do with each individual case gene ashton out of columbia said they have a new category of book down there called medium rare interesting he's been talking to charles tannenbaum is that right you know him guy who's rolling his love old pal
Have you heard of that before, the medium rare?
Oh, yes.
He was proposing that a chamber in Le Mans be devoted to medium rare books so that students could browse them.
use them but they're not for circulation you can look at them there you can't I guess so and I guess decisions are made in an individual basis whether or not we will allow photocopies you might want to talk with him he's in the Grolier Club book there's only two N's in his tannin bound it's not the usual 3N tannin bound he's a 2N tannin bound you might want to talk to him about that he's got a nifty idea and
I told him that this would probably only work if someone like me were the librarian of a college.
I would give him space and staff and expose students in my college to the whole range of rare books, maps, broadsides, manuscripts, letters, you know, the way he does it.
But it's highly unlikely that someone like me will ever become a college librarian.
And it's highly unlikely that any college librarian would give him the space for effort, you know, energy for this.
What does Tenenbaum do?
He's retired.
What did he do?
Retire from what?
He's a law graduate.
His family had real estate in New York, and he managed.
I don't know what else.
But I mean, so he's basically an amateur in the field then?
Yes.
But he's made exhibitions.
Watch the next exhibition catalog in Widener.
It's his 21st exhibition.
He's been making exhibitions all around the country in libraries.
He's an amusing man.
Tenant bomb.
Good.
An amusing man.
We were talking on the way over.
If I were to...
to be thinking about this general concept of bibliography.
For instance, I want to talk to Father Boyle at the Vatican Library about the St.
Augustine project, which is supposed to take 400 years or 200 years.
Are you familiar with that project?
I learned about this at the University of Toronto.
I was up at the Fisher Rare Books Library with Richard Landon, and they gave a talk there, and spent three days doing interviews
I'm really excited about that.
It's really going to be very comprehensive.
And they are committed to books.
The British Library is committed to books.
Why is it that we're in such a rush in this country now to slide books out the back door?
I mean, do you see this happening?
Who says that we are?
I'm sorry?
Not Harvard, but... In this country.
Well, University of Michigan, for instance.
There's a scandal of the San Francisco Public Library, right?
It's not unique, though.
It's a scandal of the San Francisco Public Library.
Did the library director there win his job at the, what was he up for ALA office?
I don't know, it's July.
Remember that?
Yeah, well, Kenneth Dowland.
In the New York expose?
That's right.
The guy who engineered that was up for a national office.
Ken Dowland is his name.
Really?
Yeah.
I don't know those people.
I don't know who they are and what they do, but that was truly scandalous.
But that's not why he lost his job.
He lost his job because he was spending too much money.
What did he lose his job?
Well, he's out.
Oh, I didn't know that.
He got fired in San Francisco.
Oh, really?
The irony is he's still running for the ALA.
I thought he was going from strength to strength.
No, he's got plastic to fire.
Was there a follow-up to the New Yorker about that?
No, but it was in the San Francisco papers.
I'll happily send you copies.
Oh, no, no, no.
I believe you.
It's just extraordinary because things like that don't happen.
People who do that usually just go on, you know, they're then recruited for the Chicago Public Library, and they become president of IFLA.
Except that the budget was for X millions of dollars, and they're like $130 million in the red.
So it wasn't about what he did.
It had nothing to do with the books.
It had everything to do with the budget.
It's like putting a mafioso in jail for income tax.
Basically, yeah.
Yeah, that's not why he got fired.
He got fired for... Can you bring us two more of these, please?
Sure.
So he got fired for the wrong thing.
Yeah.
I want to send you a... I'm sorry.
I'll mail it out this afternoon.
There's a Pierre Beres piece that was in Le Monde that... Oh, yes, you promised to send me that.
I did, and I'm sorry.
I was going to bring it.
I have just sent him.
Do you read The New Yorker?
I do.
Did you read the issue this week?
My wife has it.
I have it this week.
Look at the cartoons.
You'll find a cartoon done by the guy, I don't know his name, the guy who has kind of shaggy dog people in his cartoons.
Yeah, I know.
And there's this guy standing there wrapped up in a shawl.
Or a, what do you call it?
A shawl.
A cape?
No, it's a, I don't know, what do you call it?
Pundled up in the winter.
But a scarf.
A fancy scarf.
Wrapped all around it in several ways, and it's down on the floor.
And the woman who is talking to Samoa, I can mention to the waitress that we want to wear glasses of wine, too.
Is saying,
Oh, I can tell you're a Frenchman from your scarf.
And if you've met Beretz, you know that he has this scarf on always, winter and summer, which he takes from Mallarmé, who had a scarf too.
I saw him at a sale in New York at Sotheby's.
Did he have a scarf?
Yeah, he had a scarf on.
Quite dramatic.
Yes.
Well, who would you recommend?
Now, you say that there are people dying off in Europe.
Who specifically is at the top of your list today?
Who would you urge me to see?
Beres and Lucien Scheler.
Lucien is in Paris, and how do I contact Lucien?
Directly.
He's in the rue de Grinnell, and through Bernard Claveroy, who runs his, who bought his shop.
You remember that Elburn thing?
And I talked about Dilburn going to, went to school with Lucien Shailer, and Shailer made a lot of the quotes about him.
Who is, who brought, who took his shop, who brought his shop again?
Bernard Clavroy, C-L-A-V-R-E-U-I-L.
So what I should do is contact Bernard and ask him if he can put me in touch with Lucien.
Do you have the IFLA directory?
I-F-L-A.
No.
You know what it is?
The International Antiquariat.
No, I don't have that yet.
That's something I should have.
It's full of names and places when you go abroad.
And you can buy it from that...
ABAA Center in Rockefeller?
Really?
Where is it?
I know Leanne.
I'll call Leanne Thomas.
It's very useful and it's got the names of all the dealers so that you would find
an entry for the Lucienne Shaler shop, and you'd find the proprietor as Bernard Cloroyan, I think.
That'd be very useful to you.
They're all worth 25 or 30 bucks, whatever it is.
Do both of these gentlemen speak English, I hope?
Yes, everybody speaks English.
And you and I are the ones that have trouble with it.
Shaler is a, he's an immigrant.
He escaped.
He's a Belgian.
He's very handsome.
I've seen him in the last few years.
He's still very handsome.
And Elbrun
was with Madame Thomas.
He started his own shop.
Manusia came with Madame Thomas.
I think he married her.
He had a child.
He was a bookseller.
And then he had, for the mistress, the child was a bookseller, you said?
Huh?
The child was a bookseller?
Yeah.
He is, I think.
He had as a mistress, um, vial.
I can't do her first name.
Madame Vile, who did the periodical business, is still going in Paris.
So we had these two brilliant booksellers, one for a wife, one for a mistress.
He wrote poetry, published poetry.
Look him up in any catalog.
You find a bunch of poems, and he spells his name S-C-H-E-L-E-R, S-C-H.
And that's how you get Libri Tomas-Shaler.
It'd be wonderful.
What would you love to hear him if you were conducting, if you were me conducting the interview with him, what would you like to hear him talk about?
What would you like to hear him?
I'd like to hear him talk about the occupation.
How'd he get out?
No, he was there the whole time.
He's not Jewish.
No, too bad.
They're not all Jewish, I don't know.
Get me wrong.
They're not Jewish.
But he'd probably tell you about Michel Bernstein, who was Jewish.
So really the idea would be to talk to him about his experiences.
During the occupation, his experiences as a bookseller, his thoughts on, you know, the European attitude.
He was in the Edicione Diminui, which was an attempt by Elouar and others to propagandize through literature.
There were sort of tissue circulation in poems.
I wouldn't believe it.
Typical French idea.
Can you think of some people in Italy, I should say?
No.
No, I don't know them.
How about Otto Schaefer?
Well, that's the interesting other side.
You know, we kept bombing him and bombing him.
I don't think we ever diminished his...
Helpless.
You mean it's a profession?
Because it's making ball bearings through the war.
The story there,
Insurance's use of corporate funds in buying books
The foundation.
And when the economy soured, then he had to sell books.
This is very recent, isn't it?
Yeah.
It's kind of a foundation, is that right?
Mm-hmm.
Had to let his librarian go.
I don't think there'll be any more catalogs like the Incannabula catalog.
And he hasn't been coming to the bibliophiles.
Was he collecting during the war, do you think?
Was he collecting during the war?
I don't know.
The big German officers
We're buying from Paris dealers during the occupation.
Buying legitimately out.
Well, the German citizens were doing out.
Well, I suppose it's all right.
I suppose, I suppose safer might have been.
I don't know.
Interesting question.
But it certainly is the other side, isn't it, as you point out.
Do you have an opinion on how you had said to me before, and without a hint of irony,
that we owe a lot to Hitler.
Of course, you were teasing me and inspiring me to get into this subject, but the trust of what you were saying there
is that because these booksellers came here, because they brought this knowledge, that we, we being the American research fraternity research library, were able to build extraordinary collections.
Could you expand on that?
And you see, at the same time, he destroyed his own book trade.
Hitler did.
So he deprived the German people.
Oh, you know, I was just showing you the Gesamt catalog.
Two weeks ago.
And here it is up to age.
You want me to go?
No.
Age?
Whatever.
And...
I said, until Germany went to war, this was the most advanced work on inkabula in the world.
Really?
What was it again?
Gazamt, G-E-S-A-M-T, you know, okay.
Katalog.
Der Wigendrucker, you know, inkabula.
The Union Catalogue of Incannabula.
It's in the reading room, with all those Incannabula catalogs.
Here's the most advanced work.
But you can't do that sort of thing and make war.
Invasion and this work at home, you can't do all at once.
It's one or the other.
Either you've got to invade other countries and occupy them and that sort of thing, or you've got to leave them alone and take life.
So the thing came to a screeching halt where they began after the war.
And there was some, and to top it off there in the East, you know, instead of the West.
They're situated in East Germany, West Germany.
And now, Lottie Hellinger has got the ISTC going in the British Library.
And she's got the whole alphabet B to Z because she started with Goff R Census in this country.
We let her have the Goff Census keyed in as a basis for the new Incannabular Catalog.
It's online, ISTC.
And the Forges Out Catalog is just out in left field.
In letter H or something like that.
This is like 60 years after the fact.
This is many years after the fact.
Well, you can look at it.
It begins in the 20s, I think.
You know, E.P.
Goldschmidt was a field worker for the Gazam catalog.
And some of those manuscripts of his that you watch sold were field notebooks going to monasteries and town libraries making field notes for the Gazam catalog before he went to England.
And I had a very nice... An excellent interview with Fred Schreiber.
Fred's a little younger, he came here.
Did you get his autobiography?
I have an essay that he wrote about his experience.
Tell me to this country?
Yeah, I do.
I have that.
And then we had lunch in New York a couple months ago.
But he makes the point that what impresses him mostly is the attitude of the European bookseller wants something for this country, not just the ability to buy books and to sell books.
But the scholarship, I guess, I guess they were scholars.
Would you agree with that?
It's a tradition.
It's a European tradition, which they brought here.
I mean, they actually would come to people like Roger Stoddard and say, you have to have these books, and I'm going to tell you why, or I'm going to try and...
Explain to you why I think these books are important.
I mean, is this a simplifying project?
It was a soft sell, though.
Soft with respect to... I don't think any of them said you had to have this book.
Maybe they'd say... I've done some research on this, and this is what I... Over and over again, I say that the Elder Lollier...
He would bring a book to you and he would say, well, I don't know whether this is for you or not or whether you care about it, but maybe it has something for you.
And it would either sell itself to you or it wouldn't.
And you caught on after a while where he knew everything about books, and then he didn't have any books in that shop that weren't worth.
This is the elder lollier.
Bernard is selling first editions.
He had a nice catalog.
with three other dealers about um 20th century french first edition they bought a lot of camus and uh and sartroud recently he didn't see it he's living in materazzo's house you know that name no no i say that
But I'll learn very quickly.
Now, Carlton Lake.
You read his book.
I read his book.
Matarazzo is in there, and he explains how the elder, Mark Lollier, bought the Matarazzo house for his son.
Well, he actually bought it for himself, and he decided he wanted to stay where he was in the Rue de Saint-Père, so he gave it to his son.
And this is almost on the corner of the Rue de Saint and the Boulevard of Saint-Germain.
This is doable.
But it's doable.
You know, getting to see this.
Oh, you can see a shop, sure.
And somebody's bought out the old shop.
You know, Marc Lollier was bicycling in the park and he fell over his handlebars and went out.
And before I saw Berenar last time, they told me that
He went out on his velo in the middle of the street.
And I think nobody really knows whether he had a heart attack and passed out on it or whether he was hit by a car and stuff.
But it struck me that father and son are both the same.
Kind of accident.
Exactly.
So we were talking about, you know, this attitude that they bookseller brought here.
Sort of got similar things.
The infusion of books from Europe after the war was almost unprecedented.
There's certainly an Eastern European kind of thing.
I don't know if that happened before or not.
I wish I knew more about Napoleon.
Because you know the art of Napoleon.
To whom belongs Mona Lisa?
How long has it been in France?
How did it get to France?
And by extension how did it get to France?
Whether Napoleon did that sort of thing with books or not, I don't know.
Hitler did that a lot with books.
They've done a lot of big migrations.
But we certainly had the dollars and the exchange and the interest after the war.
Currency, the dollar was king.
Do you think Larry Powell would be somebody worth my time to talk to you on Arizona?
I'm sorry you missed Larry Whitton.
He had languages.
He went to Europe right after the war.
And he was from where?
Outside New Haven.
You heard of the Vinland map?
You know who sold the Vinland map?
You've heard of the Tartar relation?
You know who sold the Tartar relation?
A great coincidence.
And then that business over the stolen books and manuscripts in Spain.
Do you see the Yale Gazette?
Library Gazette?
Well, it's like the Harvard Library Bulletin.
You'll find
He had wonderful accents.
And he knew a lot.
He was a learned man.
W-I-T-T-E-N.
He had a lot of learning.
We collected early musical instruments.
Very interesting man.
You know that Aretino posture book?
There's a funny novel.
about a Harvard librarian and an American graduate student who finds in an Italian nunnery this great Aretino postural.
And the trick is that you have both the Aretino erotic sonnets
And you have these Raimondi images of sex monsters.
And this whole novel is about that.
There's a funny name.
It sounds like a Chinese restaurant offering, you know, 13 Joys or something like that.
Oh, yes.
And the author doesn't know it, but Barry went and brought to my office
a copy of the Latino poster books with the woodcuts, which I had to turn now.
Of course.
You'd like to have had it?
The son of, you know,
Arturo Toscanini was Walter Toscanini who ran a bookshelf in Italy, maybe in Rome, and one day he said a priest came into this book and the priest said, I shouldn't have this book, but I cannot dare to destroy it.
Give me something for it and save it.
That's a great story.
And he kept it and it passed with other collections to win it.
And the two collections that I bought were two Milanese dialect poets of the 19th.
I had wonderful collections of their work and probably nobody...
else in the whole world would have cared about them except me and then he had this book and i heard about it i said i would really like to see it and find out how much he wanted for it and all that
It had no colophon.
It didn't tell anything about where it came from.
It had some defects.
And the real book is supposed to have engravings, so this is root cuts.
It was $25,000.
There was only one fund I could use, and found it just didn't all come together.
So Britain eventually consided to auction price product, and it's now, I understand, that the collection of a
which means it's at risk, as you know.
Your ears can come in and destroy it all after dad or uncle or whatever is dead so that nothing attaches, you know, to the family.
Gotta regret.
But I couldn't have done differently.
The irony is that the guy who wrote this book
The Harvard librarian wears underwear with a Harvard seal on, you know, that you get at the coop.
Have you seen it?
No.
Have you ever shot the coop?
Well, you'll find their underwear with the Harvard seal on.
The Harvard librarian is wearing, you know, Harvard seal, coop.
Talks in shorts.
Do you get the title of the new novel?
No.
It's like the 13 joys, it sounds like a Chinese menu, a Chinese restaurant menu.
But it's the posture book of Artino.
Oh yes, it's funny.
I've been sending it around to the colleagues.
I don't know who's got it now.
But that was written, you see, the sophistication of this guy who gets caught in the two most celebrated...
Sad incidents of his time, you know, the Spanish theft and this Inland map.
And who had unprecedented access and knowledge to European bookshops after the war, right after the war.
He was in that generation.
Always dead two or three years.
And his assistant was, you know, the old Beinecke associate librarian.
What is his name?
Can't do it.
What's his name?
Bill Reese would know of it in a minute.
What is his name?
So when I looked at the stuff the other day... I'll ask Bill.
Bill should be able to direct me to some people.
Well, Roger, do you have any thoughts?
Here you are, the President of the National Society of America.
Well, it's electronics versus books.
I was talking earlier about this chapter that I was thinking about, about text, the kind of thing that you get out of a text, a text.
You know, I was at the Library of Congress a couple of months ago, and they brought out for me, you know, this radiest book.
You wouldn't pay 50 cents for it if you saw it at a Salvation Army bookstore.
It was falling apart, I think, with a first edition.
It was a book of grammar.
It turns out to be Abraham Lincoln's own book of grammar, the book that he...
taught himself the language, how to write.
Send it to Cornell.
They'll know what to do with it.
And you couldn't put a price on this thing.
And yet, it's context.
The book may only be worth 10 cents as paper, as boards.
It's not a first edition.
His handwriting, his annotations are there.
His footprints are on every page.
That seems to produce that a particular book does something.
for me as an individual.
Richard Landon showed me a book in Toronto, Wolf's Diary, a book of poems, John Donne, maybe.
He'd written his annotations in there about you really learn something from the actual copy of the book.
I don't know where I'm going with this question, but I'm wondering if all of these things are at risk in a digitized world, and if these things
concerned with if you even wonder whether or not your own collections are going to be are going to be digitized uh over there maybe they're maybe they've already started for all i know is that a question but it's a i guess it's an invitation to especially
Well, what did the Vatican librarian think in the 18th century when they began to make facsimiles of his early manuscripts?
I don't know.
For all kinds of librarians when they made lithographic facsimiles of the 19th.
And librarians all the world over when they began to microfilm.
Books and many scripts in the 20th century.
Is it wrong?
An exact summary?
Well, it's not the only one.
Can surrogates save originals?
Save in the sense that we aren't going to use them, we aren't going to handle them.
They're like watercolors, the more you expose them to the sun, the more they deteriorate.
Emily Dickinson, you know that?
Max Oley, Harvard Press.
Because all that letter paper in the 19th century was not meant to last.
You know, I wrote a letter to Uncle Harry.
Uncle Harry got it and read it, and maybe he read it out loud to his family.
And that's about what the paper was supposed to be lasting through.
Maybe three or four members of the family passed it around and read it.
It wasn't supposed to last for our time, and it wasn't supposed to be handled by 25 scholars in the past 10 years.
And that's where the Ralph Franklin deal scores.
We can't let ten scholars every five years look at that Emily Dickinson manuscript.
They'll wear it through.
Well, you know, when I was at Cornell, they had a letter that General Lafayette's daughter sent to George Washington.
And it started, because the calligraphy was beautiful, and it started, Dear Washington, and she obviously didn't know him as a general.
And she was writing about the welfare of her father.
So it was really, I might even write a little story about it.
Of course, I said, well, let me ask you a question.
They were showing this to me strictly as a digitized text.
We weren't handling the authentic document.
This came in with Lafayette's papers, right?
I said, how is it, do you think, that the letter, if it was sent to Washington, how is it that it comes in with Lafayette's papers?
She didn't have an answer for that.
I said, well, I'm going to tell you what happened.
A little girl sent a charming letter to General Washington.
General Washington read it.
He loved it.
He called the General, because Washington had no children at his own.
Carl Raphael said, look at your daughter, wrote.
He gave it to him.
That's what makes sense to me.
And he took it back, and it entered his collections on Cornell web.
I said, now?
I said, can we see from this digitized version whether or not it was ever posted or in the 18th century version of posted?
We couldn't see that.
We couldn't determine whether or not it had been sealed and folded and waxed.
And so I'm going to have to check the document itself and get back to you on that.
In other words, we couldn't determine whether we're back to the original.
That's too bad.
That's not a good facsimile, you see.
So a good facsimile should be on...
It needs your intervention also.
A facsimile is no good just by itself.
It needs your intervention.
It needs your comment on it.
It's like those microfilms that need a real guide to find out where the passage is that you want.
It seems to me that this is the old part of the issue.
The serious part of the issue is what lasts.
The exhibition room is full of incunabula.
They're very simple-minded and single-minded about
the materials that they made paper out of in the 15th century and most of it
is going to outlast everything.
Now you can microfilm one of those in funerals.
And microfilm has a pretty, you should check this up though with people who know.
Microfilm has a pretty long history of stability.
if it's this silver halide.
And that would be serious for you to hear about the two kinds of microfilms from somebody who knows something about them, and I don't.
But that has a long history of
stability, preservation, and, what do you call it, a conversion.
You print microfilm on paper, print it on microfilm, go to positive and negative to positive, you know, all that stuff.
We understand the process.
Well, it's not that.
It's the stability of the result of that process.
so that a lot of people have put their resources into making microphones with the hope that they were going to last and outlast a lot of the paper that books are printed on.
In modern times.
I heard a colleague talk about collecting comic books yesterday in science fiction.
And I don't know much about those, but I've seen a lot of the paper, the comic books printed on it.
Do you think these science fiction books and comic books were any different from the letter to your Uncle Harry that was maybe meant to be read two or three times and then discarded?
Well, the one thing about your letter to Uncle Harry in 1850 is if you don't handle it a lot, it's okay.
If you can find some way to put it in a neutral folder in a reasonable atmosphere and somehow reduce the number of people who handle it, that's my mother for me.
He's going to be there to check up the microfilm when there's some question that doesn't answer for him.
But I have my doubts about collecting comic books today and preserving them 25 years because of the paper problem.
Not because of the cultural worth of that.
I'm not talking about that.
A lot of incanabula is junk.
Who cares?
It's just old.
Old stuff.
People understand that, do they?
Not many people understand that a lot of incanabula is junk.
Oh, I think a lot of people understand that...
a lot of buildings, and a lot of sculpture, and a lot of painting, and a lot of literature, and a lot of books are junk.
A lot of them are old.
But, what do you do about the color books?
I don't know.
Is that a color microfilm, is there?
Or is there?
Well, I think when you get into color, you're in trouble on longevity.
The dyes don't stand up.
Longevity.
I believe that our CDs that we listen to at home are going to play out.
We know that already, by the way.
I think there'll come that moment when that $12 CD that I bought doesn't give me anything in the machine, and I throw it away.
What do you do about that?
This is a print out of some master.
How's the master doing?
I don't know.
Well, it goes back to a question.
I don't know if you're an executive at the record company.
You know you're selling things that are going to be used up.
That's okay.
A lot of people sell things that are used up that have a shelf life or whatever.
But how are things back in the vaults?
I mean, when I go back to the record store, saying, you know, 20 years ago I got this CD and it's no good anymore, I want to replace it.
Did you have the masters that were going to produce the replacement copy for me or not?
I don't know.
Maybe your masters are in a different category from my print.
In my microfilm, they're not.
if i lose my microfilm i can go back to you and you can credit i think right i don't know if you can do that with your i don't know i'm stupid i don't know well but you take it one step further to what's behind the digitized
What is it on?
What's the material?
You mean the CD?
There's a master somewhere.
We don't know.
What's it on?
It varies.
Now, is it on the high-grade amp and rag paper?
I asked the woman at Cornell this precise question.
I said, right here on this campus, I am here with thousands of perforated
that are worthless, that you can't read because you don't have the equipment.
She said, you're right.
You're absolutely right.
She said, but what does go through generation from generation?
It's all zeros and ones.
That's going to be the title of this chapter, zeros and ones, which is the whole essence of digitization.
It's all reduced to zeros and ones.
It doesn't matter how you store it, what the archival copy is.
whether it's an operating system that's obsolete 10 years after it's introduced.
Well, I would say it matters what the card is made of.
I would say it matters what that card is made of.
As long as you migrate it.
Migrated is the word they use from system to system.
What is the ultimate, though?
You've got me.
That's why I say this.
What's the ultimate?
Because it has to be an archival copy.
And if the ultimate backup is a nice German incunable of the 1470s, I'll say, well, you're in pretty good shape, fella.
I mean, you lose all the prints and the copies, and you're going to be able to go back and start again.
But if the ultimate backup is a comic book from 1935, or something like a CD-ROM, or something like a microfilm that's in color, I will say, you're in trouble.
I mean, you're okay today.
I mean, you can sell your product in the shop and show it to your student.
But 20 years hence, you may be in trouble.
You may lose it.
Okay, but when we were walking on the street, we were talking about the last couple of years, and we were talking about how various institutions are
Assuming that there is an archival copy someplace, and so they dispose of theirs.
But there's nothing systematic to ensure that there are attractions.
Well, you have a guide to micro, you know,
I don't know what they call them, film or form of masters.
You and I are in a library, and we've got some books on their last legs.
We don't have much money.
I wonder what to do.
We can go into this file.
We'll find it.
Book one, Iowa.
Microfilmed it.
We can go to them.
And for the cost of positive print, you can buy a microphone.
Throw the book away.
Buy that.
You get terrific value.
See?
It's probably not that bad.
This is exchanging knowledge about archives of microphone masters.
This has gone for some years now.
We had a little paperback book, and now I think it's probably online.
It's not my line of work, but I know about the beginning of it.
It's good.
It's a library economy.
You know, in our little library, we've got not much money.
We've got these problems.
This is an economic way of solving them.
Do you feel that there should be some kind of policy to ensure that there is a last book in some place, in every book?
And maybe some books belong in a digitized form.
And to be lost.
And to be lost as an artifact.
To be lost in digitization.
I mean, captured in some master that doesn't survive and is gone.
That's right.
I mean, Shakespeare exists only in print.
For example, we have no manuscripts, I guess.
Wouldn't it be nice to use the manuscripts, the true original copies, as they say, in the first folio, for which the first, you know, I mean, it survives only in that form.
We're thrilled that we have that form.
That's one example, I guess.
You feel that there should be a last copy of every book.
some place.
Harvard seems to be dealing in part, you know, you don't see accession books so far as I know, and you sort of keep them, you send them out to South Grove and elsewhere, and there they are.
You're not taking them out to the landfill, not digitizing them so far as I know, and then
Have you encountered an MLA statement about preservation of books in original form?
No.
Well, you must dig that out.
And I wish I could help you to find it, and I can't.
All right.
If you get stuck on the corner of the line, Alice Schreier at Chicago had to do with it.
Alice Schreier publicized it.
Oh, good.
If you can't find it through indexes in MLA, she will help you with it.
The statement on preservation of originals, which are into, reduced to an argument between
An idealist statement that said, preserve everything and make sure you do.
And one that said, there's not enough energy to do that.
As usual, choices must be made.
And this is right on, I think, right on your chapter.
But I would hope that you could go beyond the published statement to the debate that was behind it.
And I think you'll be amused by that.
What I'm saying is don't settle for the printed version.
Go back and see how that came about.
and see what you can reconstruct of the two sides.
But that's where you're at.
That's where you're at.
There's a pretty sophisticated investigation of this, I think.
I really am talking to people on this.
Yeah, but I think this, since it's national and American, and it comes out of the community of scholars, I think it is amusing.
There are two things going on here.
One is...
the preservation of the original in the form in which it existed, that account book of Ezra Cornell,
a letter from lafayette's daughter and the comic book and some kind of rendition of that which can prima facie outlast that original this is your microfilm and before your lithograph facsimile and your engraved and woodcut facsimile
And many of the wonderful 16th century books with white line woodcuts of inscriptions on tombstones.
And those are about 15 folios.
And it'll be interesting to see your take on all this.
But particularly interesting to see your reportage on the permanence, the durability, the viability of media.
You know, they ran out of good stuff to make paper in the Thirty Years War, and as a result, Kepler and all kinds of wonderful science books are...
printed on paper that has turned gray or black.
Reduction of legibility against the black ink, you know.
I don't think they're breaking up in pieces and flaking away.
They're losing their legibility.
They look horrible.
They look as if they're about to die, but they don't seem to be dying.
It's the other way, you know, on this 19th, 20th century paper.
And I don't know how much of it is just going to flake away before an inexpensive process is found to freeze it in viability by the carload.
I know your German friends may have solved it.
We didn't have a very good time of it at LC with this check process, which blew up a couple times in the Kennedy place.
Remember, it was a lucky for us we didn't blow up some people.
At least it was just the lab that blew up.
But that's the science
For instance if you buy
If you buy an African or a Portuguese or a Spanish book today, can you treat it when you buy it so that you get an extra 25 years?
Is that possible?
What if you get 25 years more out of anything?
You're ahead.
And maybe in the meantime, you can discover something else that will help you to save it another 50 years.
I've got to talk to this woman.
I've got to talk to this woman you... Well, she's not the only one.
You ought to finally get to someone in L.C.
and find out what went wrong with these processes.
I mean...
These folks in Germany have impressed you with theirs, right?
Well, I haven't been there yet, but they impressed Colin Clare.
He said it was urging me to go.
He gave me the name of the top guy, and he said, Colin, and he said, you will not believe your eyes.
They've got a splicer.
What is it splice?
Splice the page right down the middle, and you'll be able to go in and deassert.
It'll actually splice each.
Oh, I see.
It sunders the leaf.
That's right, yeah.
And then what?
And then it treats it and puts it back together again.
And it's a big machine that's in Leipzig, and they've got another one.
And how many can you do an hour?
It's fast, apparently.
He told me to go and see it.
He was impressed.
You see, whatever the process is, it's no good unless it does boxcars.
Well, first of all, he said big trucks, and I saw it in New York the other day, and I said, well, they're not that big.
He said, but they're this big, you know.
They go in on a truck, and it's called mass deacidification.
And they're doing it.
See, we don't have that here.
Isn't it amazing if they should invent this in Germany where they invent these movables?
I find this really kind of interesting, and if they should implement it over there.
You remember my take on the Germans in that article of mine on book theft, which was the other way around.
This is Germans making doomed artifacts, you know, making chocolate sculpture and things like that.
Remember that, that's the other end of things.
No, really, stinky.
Who's the guy who made butter, who made a heart out of butter on his wall, you know?
All that.
So the chemistry of the material and tinkering with that chemistry to make it last
has to do with the preservation of the artifact as it exists.
And then the reformatting program has to do not with the original material and tinkering with its chemistry, but with new material and its chemistry for preservation.
Diazo is the other kind of microfilm.
Silverhalide and DIAZO.
And in your...
in your insurance agency that you run in town.
You have to save some records, but you have a limited liability saving your records.
So you pay a commercial microfilm house to film last year's files and you put it on Diazlo because you don't need it more than five years.
And you throw the film out in five years.
And you throw the papers out now.
So it's almost like a videotape that you do of 24 hours of activity, and then you recycle it.
You know, this is business.
And it's cheap, not as expensive as silver halide material, because you don't need it.
It's like saying, you should have a copy of every telephone book.
It's ridiculous.